## Getting and Cleaning Data: course project

### Introduction
This repository hosts my R code and documentation files for the course project of the Coursera course [Getting and Cleaning Data](http://www.coursera.org/course/getdata).

### CodeBook.md
In this document, the reader can find information about the original data used to generate the tidy data set saved as *dataset.txt*, as well as a description of the variables, a description of the tidy data set, and transformations performed to clean up the original data.

### run_analysis.R
This script contains the R code to tidy up the original data from the [Human Activity Recognition Using Smartphones Data Set](http://archive.ics.uci.edu/ml/datasets/Human+Activity+Recognition+Using+Smartphones). More information about this data set can be found in the *CodeBook.md* file. As output, the script will generate a text file, *dataset.txt*, that will be stored in your working directory. This output file has also been pushed to this GitHub repository.

Before one can run the code, the user has to download and extract the [original data](http://archive.ics.uci.edu/ml/datasets/Human+Activity+Recognition+Using+Smartphones). This will result in a folder called *UCI HAR Dataset*. Next, the user should set this folder into his working directory. Finally, the user can run the script in order to generate the tidy data set. The script will:
* Merge the training and test sets.
* Subset the data.frame: only the variables on the mean and standard deviation will be included.
* Label the dataset.
* Replace the numeric indicators in the `Activity` column by their descriptive names.
* Average the measurements over all observations by subject and activity. 
In addition to this description, the *run_analysis.R* script is commented to indicate which parts of the code are responsible for which transformations.

### dataset.txt
This file contains the output generated by the *run_analysis.R* script. Information about the content of this file can be found in the *CodeBook.md* file. Note that this data set can be considered as a tidy data set, since it satisfies the next conditions:
* Each variable should be in one column.
* Each different observation of that variable should be in a different row.
However, this tidy data set is in a wide format, instead of a long format, since this improves the readability and interpretability. More information about the discussion on tidy data sets in long and wide format can be found in this [post](https://class.coursera.org/getdata-014/forum/thread?thread_id=31) on the course discussion forum by David Hood, one of the community TAs.

Note: to read in the tidy data set into RStudio, save the *dataset.txt* file into your working directory and execute the next statements:

```
dataset <- read.table("dataset.txt", header=TRUE)
View(dataset)
```
